---
source: RAID
label: human
language: en
domain: recipes
attack: none
license: MIT
---

2 cloves Garlic, Minced
1 Tablespoon Curry Powder
1/2 teaspoons Chili Powder
1/4 cups Yogurt
5 ounces, weight Boneless Skinless Chicken Breast, Thinly Sliced
2 cloves Garlic, Minced
1/4 cups Yogurt
1 Tablespoon Peanut Butter
1 teaspoon Curry Powder
1/2 teaspoons Honey
1 teaspoon Harissa
2 Tablespoons Cucumber, Shredded
1/2 teaspoons Lime Juice
1 Small Potato
4 Tortillas Or Pita Bread
1 Cucumber, Sliced
1 Tomato, Sliced
Sliced Onions (optional)
Shredded Cabbage (optional)
1. Combine all the ingredients for the marinade in a glass bowl, including the chicken. Refrigerate overnight or at least 3 hours, tossing occasionally. 2. Combine all the ingredients for the sauce in a small bowl. This can be done up to 24 hours in advance and kept in the refrigerator, but should be done at least 15 minutes before serving to allow flavors to blend. 3. Slice the potato into very thin matchsticks. For best results, soak the matchsticks in a bowl of water to reduce the starch for about 20 minutes. Then drain and thoroughly dry potato sticks. This is recommended, but not necessary. 4. Heat a non-stick pan over medium low heat. Add the potatoes and cook, stirring occasionally until soft, about 7 minutes. 5. When potatoes are soft, turn the heat up to medium high and allow potatoes to brown, stirring only occasionally to allow them to brown evenly on all sides. 6. When potatoes are brown, remove them from the pan into the center of the tortillas. 7. Add marinated chicken to the pan and cook until no longer pink. It should only take about 2-3 minutes if the chicken is thinly sliced. 8. Add chicken to the tortillas and top with cucumber and tomato slices, any other garnishes desired and sauce. Roll up and serve This dish is inspired by the Greek gyro. Chicken is used instead of the traditional pork or lamb pressed meat in order to create a healthier version. Spicy flavors found in the Turkish kebab are added to give it a little extra kick and flavor!
